READMEHudds.md, before:

# Hudds Hikes

## Code Institute - Milestone Project 1

## Features

### Basic Features

This project consists of three pages, each accessible by the relevant links on the top-right of each page.

### Consistent Features

- A menu header displaying the "Hudds Hikers" logo at the top-left (also acting as a homepage link when clicked) and three navigation links at the top-right.
- Four social media links at the bottom of each page as a footer.

### Home

- A gallery of eight images near the page top, intended to promote the belief that physical disability is not a barrier to participating in hiking activities.
- An introduction to the Hudds Hikers group, promoting the group's key philosophy and the structure of the walks on offer.
- Four major reasons to hike with the group made easily visible and supported by adjacent FontAwesome icons.
- Six upcoming walks, two of which are marked as wheelchair and mobility device friendly, to communicate to a site visitor that Hudds Hikes are inclusive where physically possible. A note of participation encouragement is included, along with a     link to sign up for a free membership.

### Events

- Details of two extended walking trips are included on this page to communicate the scope of the activities of the group. Hiking groups that have been or are local to me have ran trips of a similiar nature before, and I sought to repliacte that with this page.

### Join Us

- Contains a form that users must fill in to become a group member. All fields must be filled in and the final checkbox must be left selected or unselected.
-

### Features Not Implemented/For Future Consideration

- I considered the use of drop-down menus to present information about upcoming walks, much in the same way as the [Huddersfield Ramblers](https://www.ramblers.org.uk/go-walking/group-finder/areas/west-riding/groups/huddersfield/our-events--activities.aspx) group does. JavaScript was used in the creation of these menus, and was beyond the scope of limitations for this project.

- A feature that goes beyond the scope of this project would be a members-only website section, where the group's founders could be contacted more directly. This could contain a forum as well, allowing group members to discuss upcoming walks and ask each other questions.

## Technologies and Sites Used

- HTML5
    * The primary coding language used to create the site's content and draw up the form.
- CSS3
    * The language used to style the HTML5 elements and colour schemes of the site's pages.
- [Miro](https://miro.com)
    * The wireframe building website I used for the project. This helped me visualise the layout of each page (and the images contained within) across a desktop, mobile and tablet view (details such as colours and font schemes were finalised later).
- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com)
    * Eight free icons from FontAwesome were used for this project; four represent clickable links for Facebook, Instagram, Youtube and WhatsApp.
- [Adobe Stock](stock.adobe.com)
    * The eight images comprising the top of the home page were all sourced from here.
- [iStock by Getty Images](istockphoto.com)
    * The image used for the background of the signup form was sourced from here.    
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com)
    * The three different font-families used for the project, Anton, Istok and Galindo, were sourced from here.
- [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/)
    * Both my HTML and CSS code received validation several times over the last few days before project submission, and several oversights and unused classes in my HTML were brought to my attention.
- [W3C Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
    * I consulted this website several times with regards to image formatting and the particulars of using a grid template when creating the headers for my events page.
-                                  

## Testing

### Validator Testing

The Hudds Hikes project passed the following test with no issues:

[CSS - W3C Markup Validation Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

A total of 9 issues were flagged and subsequently fixed after HTML validation at the following site:

[HTML - W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/)

### Broswer Testing

The website was tested on the following broswers to ensure design, responsiveness and buttons, links etc worked as intended:

- Mozilla Firefox
- Google Chrome

### Testing Responsiveness

I manually tested the project via the following methods:

- Using Firefox Developer Tools to view ecah of the project pages at different screen sizes
- Asking friends to use the website on different devices and browsers

## Credits

### Content

The content of the site is closely analagous to real world walks that I, as well as friends or family, have either been on myself, or have been near to.

The names referred to as Hudds Hikes' founders, my own excluded, are the names of people that have a unique relationship with hiking, either by their connection to me or their relationship to someone I have hiked with previously.

### Media

All the images at the top of the site's homepage were sourced from (stock.adobe.com) under the search term "disability hike" from the first 5 of 15 results pages. Search last retrieved on 9/27/2022.

For the "Upcoming Walks" section on the site's home page, four of the six images were sourced from Wikipedia, one from stock.adobe.com and one from commons.wikimedia.org via the following links:

[Crowden Campsite and Black Hill Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Hill_(Peak_District)#/media/File:Black_Hill_(Peak_District).jpg)

[Torside Reservoir Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torside_Reservoir#/media/File:Torside8486.JPG)

[Slaithwaite to Marsden Canal Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torside_Reservoir#/media/File:Torside8486.JPG)

[Ramsden Reservoir & Hade Edge Circular](https://stock.adobe.com/images/ramsden-reservoir-near-holmfirth-during-the-summer/310465365)

[Digley Reservoir Circular Walk](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Digley_Reservoir_-_geograph.org.uk_-_503817.jpg)

[Crowden Circular via Crowden Quarry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowden,_Derbyshire#/media/File:Crowden_-_geograph.org.uk_-_377592.jpg)

The image used for the "Snowdonia Ramble Trip" is my own personal image taken via phone while descending the Pyg Track route.

The image for the "Lake District Ramble Trip" on the same page was given to me by my friend, Joshua Moss, who accompanied me on a walk up Scafell Pike in 2021. Permission was obtained to use the image for the deployed Hudds Hike project.

The background image used on the joinus.html page was sourced from media.istockphoto.com at the following address: (https://media.istockphoto.com/photos/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilitiesn3-december-picture-id1250348677?k=20&m=1250348677&s=612x612&w=0&h=YF4Kzxfpi9xd5AxtAhWBW7zSbXkrUE-Il5LfHoqSf2s=)

### Acknowledgements

I'd like to thank the following for their guidance and support for the project, however major or minor:

- My mentor, Owonikoko Oluwaseun
-
- Fellow coursemate Mia Rasmussen
-
- My friend, Joshua Moss, for allowing me to use his image in the project

Commit message:

Change of some homepage images, correct error in CSS code after validation, README progress

READMEHudds.md, after:

# Hudds Hikes

## Code Institute - Milestone Project 1

## Features

### Basic Features

This project consists of three pages, each accessible by the relevant links on the top-right of each page.

### Consistent Features

- A menu header displaying the "Hudds Hikers" logo at the top-left (also acting as a homepage link when clicked) and three navigation links at the top-right.
- Four social media links at the bottom of each page as a footer.

### Home

- A gallery of eight images near the page top, intended to promote the belief that physical disability is not a barrier to participating in hiking activities.
- An introduction to the Hudds Hikers group, promoting the group's key philosophy and the structure of the walks on offer.
- Four major reasons to hike with the group made easily visible and supported by adjacent FontAwesome icons.
- Six upcoming walks, two of which are marked as wheelchair and mobility device friendly, to communicate to a site visitor that Hudds Hikes are inclusive where physically possible. A note of participation encouragement is included, along with a     link to sign up for a free membership.

### Events

- Details of two extended walking trips are included on this page to communicate the scope of the activities of the group. Hiking groups that have been or are local to me have ran trips of a similiar nature before, and I sought to repliacte that with this page.

### Join Us

- Contains a form that users must fill in to become a group member. All fields must be filled in and the final checkbox must be left selected or unselected.
-

### Features Not Implemented/For Future Consideration

- I considered the use of drop-down menus to present information about upcoming walks, much in the same way as the [Huddersfield Ramblers](https://www.ramblers.org.uk/go-walking/group-finder/areas/west-riding/groups/huddersfield/our-events--activities.aspx) group does. JavaScript was used in the creation of these menus, and was beyond the scope of limitations for this project.

- A feature that goes beyond the scope of this project would be a members-only website section, where the group's founders could be contacted more directly. This could contain a forum as well, allowing group members to discuss upcoming walks and ask each other questions.

## Technologies and Sites Used

- HTML5
    * The primary coding language used to create the site's content and draw up the form.
- CSS3
    * The language used to style the HTML5 elements and colour schemes of the site's pages.
- [Miro](https://miro.com)
    * The wireframe building website I used for the project. This helped me visualise the layout of each page (and the images contained within) across a desktop, mobile and tablet view (details such as colours and font schemes were finalised later).
- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com)
    * Eight free icons from FontAwesome were used for this project; four represent clickable links for Facebook, Instagram, Youtube and WhatsApp.
- [Adobe Stock](stock.adobe.com)
    * The eight images comprising the top of the home page were all sourced from here.
- [iStock by Getty Images](istockphoto.com)
    * The image used for the background of the signup form was sourced from here.    
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com)
    * The three different font-families used for the project, Anton, Istok and Galindo, were sourced from here.
- [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/)
    * Both my HTML and CSS code received validation several times over the last few days before project submission, and several oversights and unused classes in my HTML were brought to my attention.
- [W3C Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
    * I consulted this website several times with regards to image formatting and the particulars of using a grid template when creating the headers for my events page.
- [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
    * I used the information on [this page](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1776915/how-can-i-center-an-absolutely-positioned-element-in-a-div) to help me center an element with absolute positioning up to a certain screen size.
- [Easy Card Design Layout with CSS Grid](https://codepen.io/dcode-software/pen/JjjpzLE)  
    * I used a modified version of the templating created by CodePen user ["Dom"](https://codepen.io/dcode-software) as the basis for my cards on the homepage and events pages.                                  

## Testing

### Validator Testing

Two issues were flagged and subsequently fixed after CSS Validation on 29/9/2022 at the following site:

[CSS - W3C Markup Validation Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

A total of 9 issues were flagged and subsequently fixed after HTML validation on 27/9/2022. On the 29/9/2022, further validation at the following site produced no errors:

[HTML - W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/)

### Broswer Testing

The website was tested on the following broswers to ensure design, responsiveness and buttons, links etc worked as intended:

- Mozilla Firefox
- Google Chrome

### Testing Responsiveness

I manually tested the project via the following methods:

- Using Firefox Developer Tools to view ecah of the project pages at different screen sizes
- Asking friends to use the website on different devices and browsers

## Credits

### Content

The content of the site is closely analagous to real world walks that I, as well as friends or family, have either been on myself, or have been near to.

The names referred to as Hudds Hikes' founders, my own excluded, are the names of people that have a unique relationship with hiking, either by their connection to me or their relationship to someone I have hiked with previously.

### Media

All the images at the top of the homepage were sourced from stock.adobe.com at the following links:

[disability_carry.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/randonnee-en-joelette/16433263)

[disability_hike.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/young-woman-with-leg-disability-uses-poles-while-hiking-with-friends-in-nature/440338733)

[hike_winter.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/randonnee-solidaire-avec-handicapes-en-fauteuil-roulant-et-aveugles-sur-la-neige-avec-des-raquettes-et-des-patins-en-montagne-en-hiver/491254660)

[disability_view.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/grisons-arosa/43718405)

[disability_horizon.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/man-with-a-crutches-and-fixed-broken-leg-on-crutches-traveler-with-hurt-leg-in-bandages-stay-on-rock/181987846)

[walking_stick.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/two-elderly-women-are-involved-in-scandinavian-walking-in-the-park-in-off-road/225274909)

[wheelchair_mountains.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/disabled-man-on-wheelchair-using-accessible-vehicle-with-lift-or-ramp-in-nature/319866098)

[disability_leg.jpg](https://stock.adobe.com/images/rear-view-of-unrecognizable-hiker-with-leg-prosthesis-walks-through-the-woods/440338957)

For the "Upcoming Walks" section on the site's home page, four of the six images were sourced from Wikipedia, one from stock.adobe.com and one from commons.wikimedia.org via the following links:

[Crowden Campsite and Black Hill Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Hill_(Peak_District)#/media/File:Black_Hill_(Peak_District).jpg)

[Torside Reservoir Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torside_Reservoir#/media/File:Torside8486.JPG)

[Slaithwaite to Marsden Canal Circular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torside_Reservoir#/media/File:Torside8486.JPG)

[Ramsden Reservoir & Hade Edge Circular](https://stock.adobe.com/images/ramsden-reservoir-near-holmfirth-during-the-summer/310465365)

[Digley Reservoir Circular Walk](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Digley_Reservoir_-_geograph.org.uk_-_503817.jpg)

[Crowden Circular via Crowden Quarry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowden,_Derbyshire#/media/File:Crowden_-_geograph.org.uk_-_377592.jpg)

The image used for the "Snowdonia Ramble Trip" is my own personal image taken via phone while descending the Pyg Track route.

The image for the "Lake District Ramble Trip" on the same page was given to me by my friend, Joshua Moss, who accompanied me on a walk up Scafell Pike in 2021. Permission was obtained to use the image for the deployed Hudds Hike project.

The background image used on the joinus.html page was sourced from media.istockphoto.com at the following address: (https://media.istockphoto.com/photos/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilitiesn3-december-picture-id1250348677?k=20&m=1250348677&s=612x612&w=0&h=YF4Kzxfpi9xd5AxtAhWBW7zSbXkrUE-Il5LfHoqSf2s=)

### Acknowledgements

I'd like to thank the following for their guidance, support and contributions for the project, however major or minor:

- My mentor, Owonikoko Oluwaseun
- My step-in mentor, Jubril Akolade
- My coursemate Mia Rasmussen
- Software Tester and friend, Paolo Ferrier, for troubleshooting some CSS styling with me
- My friend, Joshua Moss, for allowing me to use his image in the project
